# Introduction to the exercises

Try to see these exercises as micro programming projects. You are presented with a problem and you are supposed to solve it by writing Python code. If you look at it this way, writing "real" programs is basically just sticking a lot of completed micro projects together in the right way. The art in writing complex programs is to discombobulate that scary huge problem into a collection of many solvable micro problems/projects. It really is that simple. Just like playing Beethovens' 9th on the piano can be broken down into learning to play many little phrases and chords until you're comfortable and then sticking them all together in the right order. It might take a while to practice them, but once you did that, putting it all together is not too hard anymore.

## How should you go about doing the exercises

This is not about just trying to find out how to this as fast as possible. This is also about getting comfortable with the tools and developing an approach to solving programming problems in general.

Try solving the given exercises one after the other by **only** using the [internal documentation and introspection functions](README.md#classic-introspection-in-python). Also: try solving the exercises in the [different tools, we use in the course](README.md#tools-for-exploration). This way you can start getting a feeling for the differences in the tools and the different ways of working they support. Try to find out which way of working and exploring feels best for you. This is really a matter of taste and how you tick. People who love the commandline do a lot of their code preparation in Ipython. A lot of scientists love to work in Jupiter notebooks. I do almost everything in PyCharm.

If you are getting frustrated please do not jump right into Google. First try the howdoi command line tool (`pip install howdoi`) and see if you can get unstuck this way. Howdoi is basically almost like gooogling for programmers. It queries [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/) (SO), which turned into the de facto help system for many programmers since it's inception in 2008. There is even a [commandline tool](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/howdoi) (written in Python) that queries SO and feels astonishingly like asking a human (which it basically is). Mor than that there is even [SO code completion for JavaScript](https://emilschutte.com/stackoverflow-autocomplete/) ;)

